# Vehicle Theft Control and Manipulation (ZULIP)
In a country like India car thievery is a great problem, and also places like parking area takes a bit of man power. This project resolves these issues to a great extent. 

1. First use case:     
The basic idea is that every vehicle whenever at a crossing area, mall, hospital or toll tax , the camera scans the number plate fetches the numbers and generates a QR code for the same or fetches if it already exist, now if any pending complain is there for that specific number the QR code is blocked and the location of the camera is reported to the concerned authorities. This project works with an accuracy of 99.3%.

2. Second use case:   
This project can be used for bill payments at parking areas present in malls, hospitals, some apartments. Vehicles entering the parking area will be provided with a QR code and if they don't pay the bill before exiting the parking area the QR code will not be generated on exit gate. Once the bill is paid the QR code is regenerated at the exit panel and thus the banner lifts up for the vehicle to pass. 

We have used Zulip to communicate with the users. Zulip bot is used to send the message/notifications to the required user, the user can also do other chats using the zulip bot. If the message generated by zulip bot is not checked or responded soon a Twilio API is used to send SMS directly to the phone number through which the complaint is registered.

This project uses Python and PHP. Any video or original camera footage can be feeded to the program and it will start scanning for the number plates and check history of the code generated.
Some more features like:  
1. Scanning the face of the person driving the vehicle and checking his criminal record.
2. Telling the traffic status at the place where camera is installed. 

are kept secondary objectives of this projects and are embedded with working status.

